PRODDOCS-809: Support docs to docs site Git branches (#8941)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/faqs/Git/branch-migration.md

---
title: "Branches when changing Git hosts or repositories"
sidebar_label: "Branches when changing hosts or repositories"
id: "branches-when-changing-git-host"
hide_table_of_contents: true
description: "How Git branches and Studio IDE work are affected when you change providers, add a new remote, or update your dbt project connection."
tags: [Git]
---

> People often ask whether their Git branch names and commit history carry over when they switch Git hosts, start using a new repository, or reconnect their project to a different remote.

Reviewer: we use git host and git provider - sugg provider since that's more used across teh docs (git provider is used over 60 times vs 1 time for git host)

```suggestion
People often ask whether their Git branch names and commit history carry over when they switch Git providers (like GitHub, GitLab), start using a new repository, or reconnect their project to a different remote.
```

Reviewer: and that's the same across the file (e.g. title, etc)

> Short answer: Remote branches live in the Git repository that your remote hosts. They are present only if that repository (including its refs) is what you moved or connected. Work that exists only in the [<Constant name="studio_ide" />](/docs/cloud/studio-ide/develop-in-studio) and is not committed and pushed is a separate concern.

Reviewer: it might be me but i struggled to understand this part and not sure what we meant by refs
```suggestion
Your branch names and history only appear on a new Git provider if you actually copied the entire repository (with all its history). If you only copied files or created a fresh repository, the old branches won't show up. Work you've saved in the [<Constant name="studio_ide" />](/docs/cloud/studio-ide/develop-in-studio) but haven't pushed is separate and could be lost.
```

> 

Reviewer: do we think it might be helpful to have an intro sentence here introducing the toggles? are they questions or scenarios?

<Expandable alt_header="Git host migration">

If you fully migrate the same repository to a new provider (for example, using your provider’s import or mirror flow, or <Constant name="git" /> commands that copy all refs), your branches and history typically carry over.

If you only copy files, create a new repository with a single initial commit, or import only the default branch, other branches will not appear on the new remote until you push or import them.

For steps to reconnect in <Constant name="dbt" />, refer to [How to migrate git providers](/faqs/Git/git-migration).

</Expandable>

<Expandable alt_header="New repository">

> If you mean “we created a new repository and pushed—do the branches from our old repo show up there?” then no. A new remote only has what you push or import; branch names from the previous repository are not carried over automatically. To keep the same branches and history, [migrate the existing repository](#git-host-migration) instead of treating the new repo as a fresh start.

Reviewer: maybe we can reframe this as a troubleshooting step? e.g.Branches missing after creating a new repository?
A new repo only contains what you push to it. If you want to preserve your branches and history, [migrate the existing repository](/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8941/files#git-host-migration) instead of creating a fresh one.

</Expandable>

<Expandable alt_header="Project repository connection">

In the <Constant name="dbt_platform" />, the [<Constant name="studio_ide" />](/docs/cloud/studio-ide/develop-in-studio) does not keep its own separate copy of your full branch graph aside from <Constant name="git" />. The branches you see depend on the remote repository connected to the project.

> Before you use **Disconnect** on the repository or switch to a different remote, treat saved but uncommitted work as at risk: it is not on your <Constant name="git" /> host until you **Commit and sync** (push).

Reviewer: is the user doing this in the ide or their git provider? i added ide but not entirely sure
```suggestion
Before you use the **Disconnect** respository button in the <Constant name="studio_ide" /> or switch to a different remote in the <Constant name="studio_ide" />, save and push all work. Changes that aren't committed and synced (pushed) won't appear in your Git provider.
```

> Unsaved edits in the browser can also be lost. **Commit and sync** what you need to keep, or copy it outside the <Constant name="studio_ide" />. For information on how work is stored in the <Constant name="studio_ide" />, refer to [Work retention](/docs/cloud/studio-ide/develop-in-studio#work-retention).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unsaved edits in the browser can also be lost. **Commit and sync** what you need to keep, or copy it outside the <Constant name="studio_ide" />. For information on how work is stored in the <Constant name="studio_ide" />, refer to [Work retention](/docs/cloud/studio-ide/develop-in-studio?version=1.12#about-the-start-up-process-and-work-retention).
```

:::tip Pre-cutover verification
To confirm branches and connectivity before switching over, create a separate project in the <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> pointed at the new repository, verify the branches you expect, then disconnect the old repository and remove the temporary project when finished.
:::

</Expandable>

<Expandable alt_header="From managed to self-hosted">

> A ZIP of the project is a snapshot of files, not a full <Constant name="git" /> migration. It does not replace copying history and all refs the way a mirror or full clone/push does. For the supported path from a managed repository, refer to [Move from a managed repository to a self-hosted repository](/faqs/Git/managed-repo).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exporting a project as a ZIP is a snapshot of files only &mdash; it doesn't preserve your Git history or branches. To migrate properly and keep your full history, follow the steps in [Move from a managed repository to a self-hosted repository](/faqs/Git/managed-repo).
```

---
title: "Branches when changing Git providers or repositories"
sidebar_label: "Branches when changing providers or repositories"
id: "branches-when-changing-git-host"
hide_table_of_contents: true
description: "How Git branches and Studio IDE work are affected when you change providers, add a new remote, or update your dbt project connection."
tags: [Git]
---

> People often ask whether their Git branch names and commit history carry over when they switch Git providers (for example, GitHub or GitLab), start using a new repository, or reconnect their project to a different remote.

Reviewer: is tis for dbt platform users only? or both cli and platform users? i guess this info would be good for both? but not clear

Your branch names and history only appear on a new Git provider if you copied the entire repository with its history. If you only copied files or created a fresh repository, old branches do not show up. Work you saved in the [<Constant name="studio_ide" />](/docs/cloud/studio-ide/develop-in-studio) but have not pushed is separate and could be lost.

The following sections cover common scenarios, what to expect in each case, and what action to take to keep your branches and history intact:

<Expandable alt_header="Git provider migration">

> If you fully migrate the same repository to a new provider (for example, using your provider’s import or mirror flow, or <Constant name="git" /> commands), your branches and history typically carry over.

Reviewer: what does import or mirror flow mean here? or git commands? we should either make that clearer or remove it since it doesn't seem it's necessary to mention.

If you only copy files, create a new repository with a single initial commit, or import only the default branch, other branches will not appear on the new remote until you push or import them.

For steps to reconnect in <Constant name="dbt" />, refer to [How to migrate git providers](/faqs/Git/git-migration).

</Expandable>

<Expandable alt_header="New repository">

> Branches missing after creating a new repository?

Reviewer: is this question meant to be in the alt_header?

Author: Hiya Mirna, 

This was added following your earlier suggestion to introduce that line as a standalone troubleshooting-style lead-in. For consistency, I'd rather not have a question for that expandable as the others are statements but I've amended that question

Reviewer: yea [what i meant](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8941#discussion_r3094162915) was the example suggestion was more for the alt_header, which is why i suggested to frame it as a troubleshooing, traditional faq style. and the next line would be the intro i was referring to. i wasn't suggesting having the question be the intro because that's not really an intro 😅 . so this was what i meant:

```text
<Expandable alt_haeder="Branches missing after creating a new repository?"/>

A new repo only contains what you push to it. If you want to preserve your branches and history, migrate...etc. the rest of the content.
</Expandable>
```

likewise, you can make this a statement rather than a question. let me know if this doesn't make sense

Reviewer: but i wouldn't have the faq intro sentence start with a question (Branches missing after creating a new repository?) inside the toggle either since that's a little confusing and also inconsistent with the other faqs.

When you create a brand-new repository, it starts with only the commits and branches that exist in that new remote. Branches from your previous repository do not appear automatically, even if the files look similar.

> If you need earlier branches and commit history, migrate or mirror the original repository so the full commit history and branches are retained. If you continue with a newly created repository, push any branches you want to keep from your local clone.

Reviewer: same as earlier- not sure what mirror means here?

> For full-history moves, use the [Git provider migration](#git-provider-migration) approach rather than starting from a fresh repository.

Reviewer: this url is totally right i think but it wasn't going to the right place for me when i clicked on it

Your branch names and history only appear on a new Git provider if you copied the entire repository with its history. If you only copied files or created a fresh repository, old branches do not show up. If you use the <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> and the [<Constant name="studio_ide" />](/docs/cloud/studio-ide/develop-in-studio), work you saved there but have not pushed is separate and could be lost.

The following sections cover common scenarios, what to expect in each case, and what action to take to keep your branches and history intact:

<Expandable alt_header="Git provider migration">

If you fully migrate the same repository to a new Git provider so all commits and branches are preserved, your branches and history typically carry over.

If you only copy files, create a new repository with a single initial commit, or import only the default branch, other branches will not appear on the new remote until you push or import them.

For steps to disconnect and reconnect your repository in the <Constant name="dbt_platform" />, refer to [How to migrate git providers](/faqs/Git/git-migration).

</Expandable>

> <Expandable alt_header="New repository">

Author: ```suggestion
<Expandable alt_header="Branches missing after creating a new repository">
```
